everyone welcome to the september
regular school board meeting for
pennsylvania county on the 13th of
september
at this time i will ask the clerk to do
a roll call please
mr burton president mr fitzgerald
president mr henderson president ms
merricks president mr mills here mr moon
president mr doss president
we got a few items to take care of from
clothes before we get to the regular
meeting so if you'll bear with us just a
minute please do i have a motion to
reconvene and certify close random
action i'll make a motion
have a second
mrs timson
roll call please mr burton aye mr
fitzgerald aye ms henderson aye ms
merricks aye mr mills aye mr moon aye mr
doss aye
motions from close please we have a
motion to approve personnel changes for
september 13 2022 as presented
so move
second
any discussion on those
roll call please mr burton aye mr
fitzgerald uh mr henderson aye ms
barracks aye mr meadles aye mr moon aye
mr doss aye
we have a motion to approve the release
from compulsory attendance for two
students based on religious exemption
any discussion
roll call please
mr burton aye mr fitzgerald aye mr
henderson aye ms merricks aye mr mills
aye mr moon aye mr doss hi
dr jones i think you have a
recommendation for us tonight yes sir mr
dawson members of the school board uh
this evening i would like to recommend a
new assistant principal athletic
director for denver middle school
i'm sorry danny river high school i'm
sorry damn river high school mr jonathan
feign
he applied with with five other
applicants
very highly qualified and he rose to the
top
mr fain earned his bachelor of science
degree from avid university and a
masters in educational leadership from
longwood university
he has 11 years teaching experience four
years as assistant principal five years
as coordinator of middle and high school
athletics
and one year as director of athletics i
believe i don't see mr faint here this
evening i believe he's supervising
events in his current district at this
time for this evening
but we look forward to having him
come on board and be a part of the
denver high school staff
and i have a motion to
get mr fain the assistant principal a.d
for dan river high so moved exactly
any discussion
roll call please mr burton aye mr
fitzgerald aye mr henderson aye ms
merricks aye mr mills aye mr moon aye mr
doss aye that's it
again welcome tonight
that takes care of the closed items i
appreciate everybody being here we have
a large crowd it's good to see that many
come out tonight
again appreciate it at this time do we
have any additions to the agenda
can i have a motion to approve agendas
is i'll make a motion we approve if the
agenda has presented
any discussion
roll call please mr burton aye mr
fitzgerald aye mr henderson aye ms
merricks aye mr mills aye mr moon aye mr
doss aye i do want to make one comment
if you wish to speak to the school board
you have to contact the central office
by friday
before the meeting on tuesday to be
placed on the agenda
so we do not have a sign up sheet
before a meeting
so again our policy is you have to talk
to either superintendent or mrs hancock
by friday before the meeting on tuesday
okay
um consent agenda
have a motion i make motion we approve
the consent agenda second
anybody have any discussion on any of
the consent agenda items
um just just for one reference i think
it 2023 graduation site selection was
all over correct
so i'll be back at the averitt center
okay
roll call please
mr burton aye mr fitzgerald ah mr
henderson aye ms marrix aye mr mills aye
mr moon aye mr doss hi
mr mayhew we have any new employees in
the audience do you know nothing i'm
aware of
okay thank you
so we're gonna recognize some students
name is petty i think you're going to do
that for us right and i think maybe miss
reagan
can i ask all the board members to go to
the front please
we got quite a few and we'll just rotate
in and out when you need it
like this
perfect
good evening
chairman doss school board members dr
jones it is my pleasure to recognize
students in the following categories for
their achievements
perfect scores on the required virginia
assessments
college board
and ffa
first we will begin with
perfect scores
during the
2021-2022 school year pennsylvania
county administered 17
489 sol tests in addition 214 aligned
sol tests were administered for a total
of seventeen thousand seven hundred and
three state assessments during the 2021
2022 school year there were 124
perfect sol scores
there were 32 perfect scores on aligned
sol test
there were five students assessed with
aligned sol test who made perfect scores
on all aligned sol assessments students
recognized tonight distinguish
themselves as being in the population of
less than one percent of students
receiving perfect scores on all required
tests for their
grade level
from browseville elementary school
principal
mrs felita atkins would you come
forward the certificate wreath
the certificate of excellence is
presented to the students in this
category and recognition and
appreciation for outstanding
achievements for perfect scores of all
required virginia assessments granted
this 13th day of september 2022 by the
pennsylvania county school board school
board chairman calvin dawes school board
vice chairman don moon the first student
we were recognized from bronzeville
elementary school
is grant cam
if grant cam is present if he would come
forward to be recognized
thank you and congratulations to grant
our next student is from dan river
middle school
principal mr chris nick
our student been recognized as kalani
williams perfect scores on all required
virginia assessments
and congratulations to kalani
our next three students are from dan
river high school
principal is mrs anastasia romell
present this evening is assistant
principal mr franklin ferguson
the first student recognized from dan
river high school
is randy cook perfect scores on all sol
assessments
congratulations to randy cook our next
student is alexandra hernandez
recognition for perfect scores on all
required virginia assessments
[Applause]
congratulations alexandra and next from
dan river high school
is carlos williams perfect scores on all
virginia sol assessments
[Applause]
congratulations carlos and
congratulations to all students for this
tremendous accomplishment thank you
[Applause]
the next recognitions are for college
board
the first recognition student at chatham
high school mr jason reese principal
assistant principals mr delrick beard
and mrs angeline dupont
this first certificate reads
this certificate of excellence is
presented to tristan hernandez in
recognition and appreciation for
outstanding achievement for college
board national hispanic recognition
award granted this 13th day of september
2022 by the pennsylvania county school
board calvin dost chairman mr don moon
vice chairman
[Applause]
congratulations
and also
tristan
congratulations to tristan hernandez in
recognition and appreciation for
outstanding achievement for college
board national rural and small town
award granted this 13th day of september
congratulations
[Applause]
congratulations tristan
our next recognition is gretna high
school
principal mr eric moon
assistant principals katina wright and
chad scruggs
the student being recognized
this student this certificate of
excellence is presented to jaden ratliff
in recognition and appreciation for
outstanding achievement for college
board national african-american
recognition award granted this 13th day
of september 2022.
congratulations
[Applause]
congratulations jayden
the next three college board
recognitions are for students at
tunstall high school principal mr brian
bowles
assistant principal mr destin echols is
present and also assistant principal is
lisa todd
the certificate of excellence is
presented to
juan gonzalez in recognition and
appreciation for outstanding achievement
for college board national hispanic
recognition award granted this 13th day
of september
congratulations one
congratulations
[Applause]
our next recognition is to zachary
harris in recognition and appreciation
for outstanding achievement for college
board national rural and small town
award granted this 13th day of september
congratulations
[Applause]
and our final college board of
recognition is to
colin waller in recognition and
appreciation for outstanding achievement
for college board national rural and
small town award
thank you
and congratulations
to all of these students
at this time i will turn it over to miss
angela rigney director of career and
technical education who will present the
ffa awards i'd also like to acknowledge
the presence of miss brenda dawson
director of assessment and
accountability who
put all of these scores together for us
if you would stand
thank you and also
i'd like to recognize miss jenny eaton
director
of middle school education and title one
who's with us
[Applause]
and as we go into the ffa awards i'd
like to recognize the presence of miss
jessica waller assistant principal at
chatham middle and the principal is miss
julia bowles
thank you so
[Applause]
much good evening chairman dahl school
board members
dr jones and guests i want to take this
opportunity this evening to recognize
recognize numerous students
and programs for the outstanding
accomplishments and
achievements at the state ffa convention
this past june
ffa provides the next generation of
leaders who will change the world
ffa makes a positive difference in the
lives of students by developing their
potential for premier leadership
personal growth and career success
through agricultural education
at this time will the following students
and advisors please come forward as your
names are called
state ffa agriculture mechanics team
second place went to chatham middle
school
mr keith jones advisor and coach
team members
james elliott austin bradley colin
sowers and cody emerson
[Applause]
[Music]
laughs
and i'll also like to recognize james
elliott as the second place state ffa
high individual for agricultural
mechanics
mr jones you can stay up there
and we're still on chatham middle so mr
jones if you want to stay up as well as
the others next i would like to
recognize madeleine paris third place
individual state ffa small animal care
career development event
and actually if you all will stay up
there miss waller you can stay mr jones
you stay and then i'm also going to ask
mr reese to come down with chatham high
school because our next recipient
started at chatham middle school and is
transitioning into the high school for
his recognition
on his
award that i'll be recognizing him for
this evening and that is nathan paris
first place state ffa agriscience fair
project
nathan has advanced to the national
competition next month congratulations
nathan and we wish you all a success at
nationals
[Applause]
y'all can stay up there sorry
[Laughter]
next we'll transition to chatham high
school
advisors mr jason ents and miss cassidy
shelton who are unable to be with us
this evening and our recipient for this
evening is going to be grace doe who is
the first place recipient at the state
ffa creed speaking contest grace has
also advanced to the national
competition next month congratulations
grace and we wish you much success at
the national ffa convention
[Applause]
[Music]
stay
sorry one more
next i would like to recognize mr holden
mills holding place first in the state
proficiency award for agriculture
mechanics and repair congratulations
holden
[Applause]
now you three gentlemen can sit
next i'll be recognizing tunstall high
school ffa
mr eckles you can come on down as well
first i'll be recognizing the state ffa
farm
business management career development
team for placing second at the state ffa
convention
dr jessica jones advisor and coach if
you would come forward please
team members mia davis and caitlin
knight
uh
congratulations and if you all stay
stay put
you got one more recognition
tunstall high ffa chapter is also being
recognized as an ffa national chapter
award program they receive the state
gold rating for superior chapter and
will advance to the national level of
competition next month at the national
ffa convention please join me in
congratulating all of the students and
advisors on these outstanding
accomplishments
[Music]
[Applause]
this concludes our student presentations
i'd also like to acknowledge the
presence of miss jessica dalton um
principal of korean technical center and
thank mr mayhew assistant superintendent
for administration for assistance
assistant this evening thank you
let's give all these students one more
round of applause isn't it great
[Music]
[Applause]
thank you
okay up next we have the character word
of the month is trustworthiness mr
scarce from chatham high school
good evening members of the board it is
my privilege to speak before you on
behalf of the student representatives
and the student body of chatham high
school
before i share with you i would like to
say that it is fitting that you ask the
cavalier to be first in line to present
as chatham has been a premier leader in
the county since its founding in 1964.
even today we are recognizing three of
my fellow ffa members and their state
achievements this past june at the
virginia ffa convention
this month i've been tasked with
presenting you all trustworthiness
as you all know having a strong bond of
trust with those in your life whether
the relationships be work or personal is
a key to success
i found a quote that i thought put into
words exactly how much we should value
this trust
it reads
trust is the glue of life
it is the most essential ingredient
in effective communication
it's the foundational principle that
holds all relationships
stephen covey
as we leave this room let us all
remember to work towards trusting others
as well as work towards gaining the
trust of those around us
thank you and i look forward to working
with all of you in the coming
year thank you miss scare
[Applause]
up next is pennsylvanians for a brighter
future
hello dr walker
i see you have a team with you tonight
we do mr chairman it's a pleasure to be
here i'm martha walker from the dan
river district and i bring greetings to
all the board members superintendent
jones and all of our administrators and
our students this is the best night of
all to be here because of all the
wonderful achievements of our students
that's why we do what we do
that's why we go out that's why we talk
to people about things
that are important to this county
and as you know what's important to this
county at this moment
along with everything else you're
working on
is a one percent sales tax referendum
that is on the november 8 ballot
we have been asking for support since
that was placed on the ballot in
november we know it will raise 3.8
million dollars at a minimum we even
looked at what some of the numbers were
from this last week's uh
vrr
concert and based on projections from
last year last year taxes
sales tax increased by 28
when you had that many tourists in the
community that says a lot about
potential of why sales tax is an
equitable tax and important
most importantly we know what it's
invested in pennsylvania county has done
its due diligence we know that our
schools our elementary schools are going
to be impacted in a positive way
but most importantly as well we know
that twelve million dollars is being
designated for our career and technical
programs tonight with us we have people
that you already know and that you have
heard from i want to introduce miss
angela rigney who needs no introduction
to this group or to those listening
online so ms rigney will you come and
then followed by our principal miss
jessica
dalton
thank you good evening chairman dahl
school board members dr jones and
pennsylvania county citizens
of course as you all know my name is
angela ritney and i'm the director of
career and technical and adult education
for the division and also a parent of a
student at chatham high school and the
stem academy
pennsylvania county schools has been a
key partner in developing and
implementing various initiatives that
greatly benefit the region the
pennsylvania career and technical center
has been very instrumental in laying a
firm foundation in the economic growth
and transformation of the region through
partnerships and collaboration the
students in pennsylvania county have an
opportunity to train on high-tech
equipment earn college credits and gain
the knowledge and skills necessary to be
prepared for careers in high wage high
demand
industries
this collaborative team is working
together to create a regional training
facilities expand capacity and feed our
programs and increase awareness of
career opportunities in the fields of
agriculture automotive i.t precision
machining welding automation and
robotics engineering hospitality and
tourism public services hvac industrial
maintenance electricity education and
health and medical sciences
these initiatives that have been a part
of at elementary schools middle schools
high schools the stem academy and the
pennsylvania career and technical center
have primarily been funded by grants and
other funding sources totaling
approximately eight million dollars
thus in order for us to move this region
in the right direction pennsylvania
county citizens need to invest in our
children's future to provide them with
safe and innovative learning
environments that prepares them for
careers of the future the career and
technical education programs at the
pennsylvania career and technical center
and other programs need to be renovated
and facilities expanded in order for us
to meet the needs of the region i
challenge each citizen to answer this
question
do you go to the doctor
have an automobile
have a home
wear clothes have a phone
have heat and air conditioning
eat and the list could go on if you
answered yes to any of these then you
should invest in our students because we
are training them to be the next doctors
mechanics machinists nurses
cosmetologists welders
hvac technicians police officers first
responders teachers
cooks and again the list could go on
the success and recognition our programs
are receiving across the country and
internationally should make every
citizen in this region proud and want to
invest in the capital improvements of
the facilities i extend an invitation
for anyone to visit the crew and
technical center and let us show you
first hand what many identify as the
best kept secret in pennsylvania county
i hope the stories and message we share
this evening will encourage you to vote
yes for pcs this november at this time i
invite miss jessica dalton to the podium
good evening
chairman doss school board members dr
jones thank you for the opportunity to
speak with you this evening regarding
the one percent sales tax and the
benefit to the pennsylvania current
technical center
as the principal at pctc my job is to
oversee and manage the operations of the
building
with that we've had experience of issues
with major leaks within our building
that have damaged equipment and quite
honestly cannot be replaced due to the
expense
as many know millions of dollars of
grant funds have been invested into the
state-of-the-art equipment to streamline
training purposes in our programs
having a building that's outdated with
new heavy equipment puts us at risk when
we face issues such as having enough
electricity to run
our automation robotics program our
welding lab our precision machining lab
and our new i.t academy
in addition unlike other schools we do
not have a common meeting area for
competition meetings classroom meetings
etc this has caused a burden when
hosting skillsusa competitions
we at times have to find different
location sites to conduct these meetings
you heard from our cte director ms
rigney and the need and impact for
economic development in our region
we are integral part of supporting this
local regional industry and business
need
if we look five to seven to ten years
down the road we need to evaluate the
programs and new programs our region may
need for workforce development
at this time pctc is at capacity
ms rigney and myself are now currently
hearing the needs of our partners and at
this time cannot meet their needs due to
the fact that we cannot bring another
program in our building
now currently some of our labs hold a
classroom and this also creates spacing
and sometimes safety concerns due the
fact that we are essentially out of
space and out of room
many of our programs require
accreditations and with this we must
meet those needs to keep the programs
open and current
again this is a good problem to have
because it shows growth and improvement
in our numbers and our programs however
we need to think about our future
and where we will be if we do not have
space to grow
this one percent sales tax will provide
the opportunity for growth in our
community and our region and support
those needs
this evening you will have the
opportunity to hear from pctc alumni as
well as a current student regarding
their perspectives and testimonies about
this 1 sales tax i invite them to come
forward
good afternoon my name is leighton
wilson during my junior and senior year
of high school i attended pennsylvania
county
technical career center
and was a student in the precision
machining technology program
during my time there i found my passion
in my future career
and machining and so many others found
their passion in other programs
pctc has changed me into a brighter and
more self-efficient person where no one
else could
i had the honor to be in a club called
skillsusa
and compete in the cnc milling
specialist category
i succeeded in becoming a district
champion state champion
and traveling to atlanta georgia to
place sixth nationally
i even had the opportunity to speak with
go tech students at the middle school
explaining my role at pctc and encourage
them to work up
to becoming a student there
today there is a huge disadvantage when
it comes to students getting the
education that they desire to have
no one should have to pay the amount of
money for college just to achieve a
career job
that is exactly what pctc helps with
students come out with certifications
ready to be hired without the push for
college yes i agree that every student
should go to college but some people
aren't as
fortunate as others
this technical center offers a once in a
lifetime opportunity for students to get
ahead get ahead of their future
even though pctc has so many benefits is
an outstanding place to learn the
facility has some problems
when i was in the precision machining
program everything had to be perfect
precise and without room for error but
we were faced with problems in the shop
we had a water leak that caused rust on
a milling table and the machine was out
of commission for a while
our cnc milling
machine has a major air leak and we're
not able to use it the entire time i was
there in the years before
we also have had other
leaks that has caused problems in the
shop limiting our production process
these obstacles have put this program
behind on the education that it
potentially offers i can only speak for
the program that i was most familiar
with but i am certain that the same
things are happening with every program
the condition of this facility affects
the education students can potentially
have by limiting what they can learn
this one percent sales tax will benefit
pctc in
extravagant ways with that money we
could add up to 15 more programs extend
the building and bring more and more
students to give them the same
experience i once had miss rigney works
to secure grants for textbooks equipment
and tools
that money cannot be used toward capital
improvements localities
need to invest in capital improvements
for their children our future workforce
is depending on our education system
and a technical center that can make our
students a part of the pipeline that is
already in place
one last question i want to leave for
you all to answer is would you want your
children and grandchildren to go to a
school like this to get a grasp for
their future career
thank you for your time and i hope my
words can influence you to vote yes
[Applause]
good afternoon my name is caleb wells
during my junior and senior years of
high school i attended pctc and took
precision machining
during my time there i fell in love with
machining and all things about it
pctc has made me a better person and has
made my life a lot better from the
friends that i can call family who i met
there in my senior year i was able to
compete in skillsusa and the cnc turning
specialist category
i loved and appreciated the opportunity
so much i was able to become a district
and state champion and play sixth in the
national finals in atlanta georgia in
june
anyways today there is a big dry area
when it comes to students getting the
education they deserve in high school
in my opinion no student should have to
pay to go to school to learn to trade
and that is what pctc is helpful for
students can graduate with a
certification
in many forms of trades and go straight
into the workforce
i do believe that you should go to
college to further advance your
knowledge
and a trade as well but some people do
not have the ability to pay for college
that's where pctc comes into play
helping students who are more
unfortunate than others
even though pctc is a great place to get
a head start in life
it still has some problems
even in my precision machining course i
could spot out the problems we would
have water and air leaks it seems like
every day and granted yes they would get
fixed because the staff
is always on top of their game it seems
like something new with our eyes every
day
the air and water leaks would slow down
our production and make it difficult to
get projects out
we didn't even get to use our cnc
milling machine because of the major air
leaks and the machine being so outdated
that it still uses a floppy disk
these things have caused the program to
take a slight decline from what it was
before these issues started arising
i know i'm only speaking for the one
program
but it is the one that i would call
school for half of the day five days a
week for two years
this one percent sales tax will benefit
pctc in ways that would not even be
thought of before
with the money pctc could receive they
could expand the building creating up to
15 new programs and bringing in more
students with great minds
who want to help build our country by
working in the trades
our future depends on these trades and
pctc is the start of something special
in many people's lives
it is a great opportunity for your
children and grandchildren to get a head
start in their lives and do something
productive
i am encouraging all young people people
who care about the future of america and
people who support the trades to vote
yes to build a stronger workforce and to
keep america
and our area great
thank you for your time
thank you
[Applause]
my name is tony myers and i'm a senior
at gretna high school in pctc pull the
bike down just a little bit
there you go last year i took
electricity and now i have returned to
pctc as a senior taking the industrial
maintenance program my pro my parents
and i know and respect the fact that i
want to learn hands-on skills to be
effective in my work environment my
father works construction and i
currently work with my father and find
my hands-on training very important i've
truly enjoyed my classes at pctc hence
the reason i chose to came back my
senior year this past summer i had the
opportunity to compete at national usa
national skills usa in atlanta georgia
and gain the wealth and knowledge and
relationships i would carry into my
future bctc and the staff have helped me
help mold me mold me into who i am today
however
as a member of this community and
student in the school i am concerned
regarding the future and the need to
update and create rooms for additional
programs like i said my father was
construction and i would love to see
building trades be brought into pctc
along with others however they have no
space currently in addition the locker
rooms are outdated and need to be redone
i hope to remain in this area and
realize without a community
understanding and investing in programs
in our schools we may not be able to fix
the current problems we have and may not
be able to bring new programs to pctc i
ask that everyone vote for the one cent
sales tax and invest in our students
programs in future
thank you
[Applause]
good evening
school members dr jones assistant
superintendents and guests my name is
blake hughes i'm a 2022 graduate of dan
river high school my junior and senior
years were spent as a persistent
machining student at the pennsylvania
career and technical center better known
as pctc
i'm here this evening to talk about how
the one percent sales tax can benefit
the schools in pennsylvania county
especially pctc
the pennsylvania career and technical
center was built in
1978 and not many renovations have been
done there in the past 44 years the
one-cent sales tax increase will fund
the construction and renovations for
several of the 20 programs offered
just in the machine shop online there
are multiple repairs and renovations
needed other programs can be extended
and some even relocated
all of the programs would benefit from
the sales tax increase and entice more
students to attend pctc as well
while paying one cent sales tax increase
seems terrible to some people it is
actually an investment for the future of
pennsylvania county
it is well worth it to enhance the
educational needs in our area so that
students can participate in hands-on
training programs in a safe equipped
building that allows them to prepare for
their future as well as ours
so i asked everyone here this evening
that please vote yes on november 8th so
fisa vande county can oppose a one-cent
sales tax for the construction and
renovation of our schools thus way
pittsburgh county schools can continue
to be a great place to learn and work
thank you for your time
[Applause]
so i'm going to ask y'all what's more
important than educating our students
i don't think anything yes no you
already missed ready come on
i was just waiting for you um
but i think if you haven't had a chance
to look and see what the one percent
sales tax is going to be used for
please take the time to educate yourself
yes it's a tax and that's a bad word and
everybody says i'm not voting for a tax
but please educate yourself on how this
will work and why it's important and
what the funds are going to be spent for
and what we need to improve our safety
in our buildings and that's all it can
be spent for is to improve our buildings
and you know like ms walker said a few
minutes ago
look how much would have been paid from
outside of the county
this past weekend
that would have paid that bill
that would not have come out of our
pockets
so i
really please educate yourself on what
this one percent means before you just
jump up and say i don't want to pay
another tax because it's very very
important and for those who own land and
cars and things that you already have
personal property taxes on homes
just think about if this doesn't pass
and the burden falls back on just those
select few people
that own property in pennsylvania county
now because some of this work is going
to have to take place eventually whether
it's there in a few years
so please educate yourself on what this
does ms rigney
thank you i do want to take this
opportunity to thank our students for
coming back this evening they are all
enrolled in programs at the community
college and do have very busy schedules
and work and these are just four
examples of phenomenal students that we
have who are invested in the future of
our programs these students are willing
to come back and give back to
pennsylvania county schools because of
what they got from pennsylvania county
schools so i challenged you to ask all
of the students enrolled in programs at
the pennsylvania career and technical
center as well as the elementary schools
and other programs that are on the
docket that would be impacted by these
renovations and these capital
improvement projects we thank you for
your time
board dr jones anyone have any questions
for our team this evening
any more members
thank you ms reagan dr walker thank you
so much
[Music]
[Applause]
next on the list is the pea
the other dr jones as i like to call her
so we're a month into school almost six
weeks into school right
so you're gonna give us all the good
news right well you know what
um
that's all i want tonight's good news
just well you know what i have been led
by by the conversations i've heard
and forgive my manners and my upbringing
good evening
to you all and i want to say thank you
for your investment in us and education
there are many things that you could be
doing and you chose this vocation
and sometimes i think that the task is
just not
said thankful enough
so i'm saying to you thank you because
yes mr dawes we have completed almost a
full six weeks of school
and when you say you want to hear the
positive
i will give you positive but i'll be
also honest
a lot of people are searching for peace
uh and the hastiness of life and all the
things that we've seen
happen in our society
they're occurring around us
often peace seems like it's an elusive
creature
and that is to everybody that's in this
room and those who are watching online
and the reality of it is when we're
looking at education we're often worried
about what happens to our future
do we have enough individuals coming
into the profession to continue on and
what does that look like
not just for today
but for the next decade the next
generation of individuals
who chosen to lead
and want to do good in their communities
but again
it's peace
peace and decision making peace and
knowing that you've made the right
choice
so i know this past school year
i started and ended my address with a
prayer
and i stand here tonight telling you i'm
compelled to do the same thing again
so on this day
and all the days ahead for each and
every one of us
men to quarrel
search out a forgotten friend
dismiss suspicion and replace it with
trust
forever character word of the month
write a love letter
share some treasures
give a soft answer
encourage youth
manifest your loyalty in a word or deed
keep a promise
find
the time
forgo a grudge
forgive an enemy
listen
apologize if you were wrong
try to understand
flout envy
examine your demands on others
think first of someone else
appreciate
be kind
be gentle laugh a little more
deserve confidence
take up arms against malice
decry complacency
express your gratitude and worship your
god whoever that might be
gladden the heart of a child
take pleasure in the beauty and wonder
of the earth
speak your love
speak it again
still speak it once more
and speak it even more
and never cease
to speak the truth
because the truth is what sets you free
so as we look for peace all of us and
all that we do
i thank you again for choosing this as
your vocation
because you're needed
for today and for the future
thank you dr john
[Applause]
staff and commerce committee reports
does anybody have any questions on any
of the desk reports we need
no questions
we'll move on to the superintendent's
report
dr jones yes sir mr dawson and members
of the school board i would just like to
draw your attention back to the staff
report on the aed purchases
we have purchased four additional aeds
and i have received several phone calls
over the years about having those
accessible on our fields and so our
school nurse coordinators have done that
so just i think that's a very good
purchase for the division they'll be
available for outside activities at the
school so just to draw your attention to
that
my items this evening
there was a nice article in the paper
star tribune
about the 9th and 10th grade program at
the stem academy i appreciate mrs rigney
and her staff
for spearheading that initiative this
year we opened those programs there but
a very nice article there in the paper i
think it's going to be featured in smart
brief
which is disseminated nationwide so
that's that's additional recognition for
that program
also
mr fitzgerald and mr henderson were with
me uh monday yesterday at denver middle
school for their 9 11 ceremony
outstanding again
that that school mr nick is in the
audience this evening along with mr earl
glass and his staff and mr nick's staff
there just do a wonderful job with that
presentation each year
other items that i have on the agenda
we had a sales tax referendum update
this evening i won't go through those
items but there's a list
there of the meetings that will take
place
between now and election day
there's also some remarks from dr walker
there
if you're interested in helping
assisting with any of those items there
it's there for you
i'd like to provide you all with an
update regarding dress code
the dress code committee met on
september the 8th
approximately 23 people participated in
meeting
the committee reviewed the data from a
survey to parents and teachers on dress
code the committee reviewed the current
dress code and a revision of the dress
code with first edits made by the school
board's attorney
the committee discussed the data from
the survey and the attorney's remarks
and made suggestions
1392 parents responded to the survey
approximately 61 percent of the survey
respondents who were parents were in
favor of not changing the dress code
of the 39 of the respondents in favor of
revisions
leggings at 7.33 percent
treating boys and girls equally 6.18
percent were the areas of most concern
73 of the teachers indicated in their
survey that they did not have any
concerns with the dress code
and of the 27 who indicated they did
many had suggestions to make the dress
code more strict
based on the discussion in a second a
second edition of the dress code is
being drafted and will be sent to
committee members for their input we'll
have an update for you in october
regarding the
the revisions that the committee is
suggesting
i'd like to provide to you also a middle
school athletics update the i.t
department has launched a survey to all
parents on the feasibility of offering a
middle school athletics program the
survey closes on september the 22nd and
a report will be made to you all at the
october board meeting
bridging the gap
pennsylvania county schools has been
selected to participate in the virginia
department of education bridging the gap
learning loss recovery plan initiative
this is a pilot program that will
spotlight some of the great programs
intervention strategies and successes
that school divisions across virginia
are implementing now
while supporting more innovative
applications of data-driven instruction
and increasing the capacity of every
school to strengthen their relationships
with parents and student caregivers
over the coming weeks our instructional
staff will participate in meetings with
the virginia department of education
staff that will outline this program
and that will be provided to the board
at some future meetings
um also this evening there was a desk
report uh provided by mrs dawson and mrs
petty that had our s1l scores and i
would like to again draw your attention
to that
because we've done some analysis of our
scores you know while the last two years
have been
difficult at best
we feel very good about where our
students are at this time while they're
not where they we think they would have
been had we been in school
when we compare our scores across the
state i'd like to bring this back up i
think i've shared this with you before
but we are
17th
best
in the state out of 132 school divisions
in reading and math which is the top 13
percent
and we are 20th best in science as far
as uh
pass rates
in science and that's the top 15
so it really says a lot about what our
staff does with our students says a lot
about our households and families and
the concerns they have for education and
it speaks volumes about pennsylvania
county schools so i'd like to thank mrs
petty and her staff thank mrs dawson for
the data this evening and again express
of how proud we are of our students
and staff
[Music]
i think that's awesome i really do
that's fantastic
and mr dawes uh i do have some
information regarding vspa conferences
the vsba legislative advisory conference
in september the 22nd
the 17th annual vsph student school
board representative workshop is on
november the 16th
and the vspa annual conference
convention is on november 16th through
the 18th
and mr doss that's all i had this
evening that it thank you dr jones
okay we have no unfinished business
under new business we have
charging support program
participation agreement with dominion
and mr scott that's for the electric
buses correct we have one for the first
two and this is for the other two right
okay
have a second second
any discussion on that
roll call
please mr burton aye mr fitzgerald aye
mr henderson aye ms merricks aye mr
mills aye mr moon aye mr doss all right
and then next we have a request for
declaration of surplus property vehicles
and equipment again mr scott you have
some stuff you want to put online
correct
i'll make that motion second
motion of a second any discussion on
that
roll call please mr burton aye mr
fitzgerald aye ms henderson aye ms
merrick's mr mills aye mr moon aye mr
doss i
want to thank everybody for being here
tonight for those online for watching um
we appreciate all the support and we'll
see you in october do i have a motion to
adjourn
i make motion with a jury
second roll call please
mr burton aye mr fitzgerald uh mr
henderson aye ms merricks aye mr mills
aye mr moon aye mr doms aye
you